[GeoMechanicsApplication] Generalized Newmark revised ( no v and a update for static ) (#12093)
KratosMultiphysics/Kratos: applications/GeoMechanicsApplication/custom_strategies/schemes/README.md

# Geomechanics Time Integration Schemes

## Introduction

> The `Scheme` class in Kratos is used to create time integration schemes. It is an abstract class, for which Geomechanics

Reviewer: Nit picking: I would prefer to write "base" class rather than "abstract" class, since the latter means (in software engineering) a class that has at least one pure virtual function. But the `Scheme` class doesn't have that (although you could argue that it should).
```suggestion
The `Scheme` class in Kratos is used to create time integration schemes. It is a base class, for which Geomechanics
```

Author: done

$$\dot{x}\_{t + \Delta t} = \dot{x}\_{t} + (1 - \gamma)\Delta t \ddot{x}\_{t} + \gamma \Delta t \ddot{x}\_{t + \Delta
t}$$

Note that the order here is the other reversed with respect to the Backward Euler scheme. This is because
$\ddot{x}\_{t + \Delta t}$ is used in the equation for $\dot{x}\_{t + \Delta t}$.

For these functions, identically to the Backward Euler scheme, $\ddot{x}$ and $\dot{x}$ refer to the first and second
derivatives of $x$, while subscripts $t + \Delta t$ and $t$ refer to the end and start of the current time step. The
magnitude of the time step is denoted by $\Delta t$. The parameters $\theta$, $\gamma$ and $\beta$ are the parameters of
the Generalized Newmark scheme, with the following conditions: $0\le\theta\le 1$, and $0\le\gamma\le 1$ and
$0\le\beta\le 0.5$.

For setting the time factors (done in the `SetTimeFactors` override), the following equations are used. For the scalar
variables, the time coefficient is set to $1/(\theta\Delta t)$, while for the vector variables, the time coefficients
are set to $\gamma / (\beta \Delta t)$.

## Dynamic, damped and quasistatic Generalized Newmark schemes

> The dynamic, damped and quasistatc schemes are all Generalized Newmark schemes (as seen in the class diagrams). For the

Reviewer 2: Minor typo
```suggestion
The dynamic, damped and quasistatic schemes are all Generalized Newmark schemes (as seen in the class diagrams). For the
```

Author: done

vector variables part (displacements and/or rotations) they take different parts of the equation of motion into account.
Quasistatic the contribution to matrices and vectors for displacements/rotations only, damped the contribution to
matrices and vectors for displacements/rotations and velocities/angular velocities and dynamic the contribution to

> matrices and vectors for accelerations/angular accelerations, velocities/angular velocities and displacements/rotations.

Reviewer 2: I think here it might help for the overview to make it a list of bullet points.

For vector variables part (displacements and/or rotations) they take different parts of the equation of motion into account:
- Quasistatic: the contribution to matrices and vectors for displacements/rotations only
- Damped ...
- Dynamic ...

Author: tried. please have another look after push

> Therefore the functionality `UpdateVariablesDerivatives`, `CalculateSystemContributions`, `CalculateRHSContribution`

Reviewer 2: Nitpicking
```suggestion
Therefore, the functionality `UpdateVariablesDerivatives`, `CalculateSystemContributions`, `CalculateRHSContribution`
```

Author: Yes, done.

> Therefore the functionality `UpdateVariablesDerivatives`, `CalculateSystemContributions`, `CalculateRHSContribution`

Reviewer 2: Since these functions are explicitly mentioned here, it might be nice to also add them to the class diagram.

Author: Tried, please have a look after push.

> and `CalculateLHSContribution` are overridden and add extra terms to the system matrix and right hand side vector.

Reviewer 2: Since this section now also includes quasistatic, I think it's good to be explicit that adding the extra terms is only done for dynamic and damped:
```suggestion
and `CalculateLHSContribution` are overridden and add extra terms to the system matrix and right hand side vector for the dynamic/damped schemes.
```

Author: done

## Dynamic, damped and quasistatic Generalized Newmark schemes

The dynamic, damped and quasistatic schemes are all Generalized Newmark schemes (as seen in the class diagrams). For the
vector variables part (displacements and/or rotations) they take different parts of the equation of motion into account:
- Quasistatic: displacements/rotations related matrices and vectors only
- Damped: as quasistatic + velocity/angular velocity related matrices and vectors

> - Dynamics: as damped + intertia (acceleration/angular acceleration) related matrices and vectors

Reviewer 2: Minor typo
```suggestion
- Dynamics: as damped + inertia (acceleration/angular acceleration) related matrices and vectors
```

Author: Yes newly added typo. Corrected.
